- Whenever a message is sent from the browser to the server,
it will first come from the browser as a JSON object.
Once it reaches the server, we will need
to model that object to represent the types of classes
we want to work with in our application.
In this video we're gonna talk about our model classes
that we need for our real time chat app.
We want to model things like the chat participants,
and the chat messages that come from the browser
as well as chat messages that come back from the server.
So let's get started creating our model.
To begin, let's go and open up our model package.
And as you can see here, I have three simple model classes,
just to give you an idea of what we need to do.
I want to begin with creating our ChatInMessage.
So let's begin typing some of our properties
that we'll need.
First we're gonna need a string, to represent our sender ID.
Next, we'll need another string to represent
maybe the sender's name.
And we do need a string to represent the message.
And because, eventually this will be production ready,
we do want represent the timestamp.
So I'm gonna make that a date object for now.
Feel free to change it to a different type as you
evolve this sample application.
So those are all of the properties that we need.
And for our last step, we do want to create our
Getters and Setters for all of our properties.
To do that, we can right click anywhere in the Class,
choose 'Source,' and then, 'Generate Getters and Setters.'
Then, 'Select All,' because we want to create
Getters and Setters for all of our properties,
and click 'OK.'
Now you see all the Getters and Setters done.
And I want to add a little bit of white space
right after our timestamp property.
That's our ChatInMessage.
So this should represent all of the data that we would
expect on any message that comes in from the browser.
Let's set up another model object.
Let's see what our ChatOutMessage.
Now this is going to represent any messages that come
out from the server.
Again, we're going to create some properties, strings again.
So for our ChatOutMessage,
first string is just the content of the message.
And, let's make another string to represent
maybe a group name.
This is going to help us later on, when we want to target
who we're targeting messages at.
Maybe at particular groups, or individuals.
And lastly again,
let's make sure we have a timestamp on these messages.
Alright, so I'm done creating my properties.
And once again I do want to create my accessors,
so all of my Getters and Setters.
I'm gonna click on 'Source.'
Choose 'Generate Getters and Setters.'
And I want to 'Select All.'
And now add a line here right after timestamp,
just to clean this up with a little bit of white space.
And that completes our model object for our ChatOutMessage.
Lastly, I'm gonna go back into my model package.
And because chats involve participants, why not model
a class to represent what a participant might look like?
Again, I'm gonna start with a couple of strings here.
Participant has a first name and, surprise, surprise,
they probably have a last name.
And for the purposes of a chat app, though, you might want
to say they have a short name.
Different applications may call this something else,
but let's call it a short name.
And something new, for our app, we might want to specify
a participant type.
Remember, we're creating this for event guests, event staff,
so we want to be able to specify what type of participant
you are.
Now that I have my properties,
I'm going to add my accessors again by choosing 'Source,'
'Generate Getters and Setters,' I want to 'Select All.'
Generate all of my Getters and Setters again.
And once again right after the participant type, I want
to add some white space here for readability.
And that takes care of enough model classes
just to get you started.
I'm sure you could imagine more, and could create more
as you develop this into a production worthy app.
So let's recap a little bit.
Right now our model is pretty simplistic.
It consists of messages that are sent from the client,
we call that model class the ChatInMessage.
We also create a ChatOutMessage.
This is to represent any messages that come from the server
and are sent to the browser.
We also created a ChatParticipant model class.
This is to represent the fact that there are participants
on both sides of these messages that have names,
and short names, and other properties.
We may develop the model more later, but for now,
this is good enough.
Let's move on to creating our controllers.